In the next few sections, I want to talk about
some of the big challenges that confront all
of us as a society, as a people. The root
cause of the challenges that confront us are
essentially the world population growth. In
this graph here shows, three different scenarios.
These are called medium growth model, which
has population of the planet topping out at
8.9 billion by the 2050.
The low growth model, which sees population
actually starting to decline after about the
year 2035 and the rather scary high growth
model which sees 10.6 billion people in the
planet by the year 2050. It's going to take
a few years before we can work out which of
these particular lines we are on.
The consequences of more people on the planet
are many. For a start, we are going to need
more food. There are more mouths to be fed
on the planet.
We are going to need more resources. Each
person requires resources such as energy to
manufacture items that they need whether that's
housing or other sorts of goods. We need materials
like metals and petroleum resources and we
need water - water for drinking and also water
for washing and water for manufacturing, all
the items that these people require.
And finally, there is going to need a whole
lot more transportation. We have more people
in the planet, more people will need to go
from point A to point B. All these resources
need to be transported from where they are
produced to where they are going to be used.
So, increased amount of transportation for
people and the resources that the people require.